token.txt                                           08 Aug 07
                  Conventions for Use of Tokens

This document describes the conventions for using the token data
structure as in the file token.h .

The type TOKEN is a pointer to a token record, which contains the
following fields:

tokentype   The kind of token: OPERATOR, DELIMITER, RESERVED,
            IDENTIFIERTOK, STRINGTOK, or NUMBERTOK.

datatype    INTEGER, REAL, STRINGTYPE, or BOOLETYPE
            This is a small-integer type code that is used when the
            type is a basic type, e.g. INTEGER.  If the type is not
            a basic type, this field is unused.

symtype     a SYMBOL pointer for the type of the token.  symtype is
            necessary for every token in an expression tree whose
            type is not a basic type (as in datatype above).
            Operator tokens, as well as Identifier tokens, may have
            a symtype pointer, e.g. the aref operator in (aref p 4)
            has a symtype that points to the type of the result.

symentry    symentry points to the symbol table entry of an Identifier;
            other kinds of tokens do not have a symentry pointer.
            symentry is needed for Identifiers because the offset of
            the variable (in the symbol table) is needed to generate
            the load/store instruction to access the variable.

operands    a TOKEN pointer to the first operand of an operator.
            In drawings of expression trees, operands is always a
            down arrow.

link        a TOKEN pointer to the next operand at the same level.
            In drawings of expression trees, link is always a
            horizontal arrow pointing to the right.

            In an expression that prints as (+ i j), the pointer from
            + to i is operands, the pointer from i to j is link,
            and the link field of j is NULL.

                            +
                           /
                 operands /
                         /
                        I ------> J
                           link

The following value fields share storage; only one of them can be
valid for any particular token:

whichval    for OPERATOR, DELIMITER, or RESERVED tokens, this small
            integer code tells which operator, delimiter, or reserved
            word it is.

intval      the value of a NUMBERTOK that is an INTEGER.

realval     the value of a NUMBERTOK that is REAL.

stringval   the character string that is the name of an IDENTIFIERTOK
            or the value of the string constant of a STRINGTOK.


See the file symtab.txt for code to look up an identifier in the
symbol table and mke the proper connections in its token.
